# Server

What is a server?
In computing, a server is a piece of computer hardware or software (computer program) that provides functionality for other programs or devices, called "clients". This architecture is called the client–server model. Servers can provide various functionalities, often called "services", such as sharing data or resources among multiple clients, or performing computation for a client. A single server can serve multiple clients, and a single client can use multiple servers. A client process may run on the same device or may connect over a network to a server on a different device.
Client–server systems are today most frequently implemented by (and often identified with) the request–response model: a client sends a request to the server, which performs some action and sends a response back to the client, typically with a result or acknowledgment. Designating a computer as "server-class hardware" implies that it is specialized for running servers on it. This often implies that it is more powerful and reliable than standard personal computers, but alternatively, large computing clusters may be composed of many relatively simple, replaceable server components.
Hardware requirement for servers vary widely, depending on the server's purpose and its software. Servers are more often than not, more powerful and expensive than the clients that connect to them.

Clusters
A server farm or server cluster is a collection of computer servers maintained by an organization to supply server functionality far beyond the capability of a single device.

What is the purpouse of a server?
The server is part of the client–server model; in this model, a server serves data for clients.
The role of a server is to share data as well as to share resources and distribute work. A server computer can serve its own computer programs as well

Some types of servers
- Web server: the primary task of a web server is to store, process, and deliver websites to clients, like web browsers and search engine crawlers. Communication between server (software) and clients is carried out via the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) or its encrypted version, HTTPS. HTML documents and the elements incorporated in them like, images, style sheets, or scripts, are transferred this way. Major web servers include the Apache HTTP server, Microsoft Internet Information Services (IIS), and Nginx.
- File server: file servers care for the central storage of data accessible for a number of different clients via a network. Companies rely on this file management to provide multiple workgroups access to the same file. File servers protect against problems arising from various local file versions by enabling automatic versioning of files and a centralized backup of all corporate data. If access to the file server comes via the internet, then transmission protocols like FTP (File Transfer Protocol), SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol), FTPS (FTP over SSL), or SCP (Secure Copy) are used. In local computer networks (LAN), the protocols SMB (Server Message Block) and NFS (Network File System) are utilized.
- Mail server: a mail server consists of several software modules that work together to enable e-mails to be sent, received, forwarded, and retrieved. The Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) usually handles this. Users who wish to access a mail server need an e-mail client to collect messages from the server and deliver them to the e-mail inbox. This is carried out by IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) or POP (Post Office Protocol).
- Database server: a database server is a computer program that gives other programs access to one or several database systems via a network. Software solutions like this include Oracle, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, and DB2. Database servers support web servers by storing and delivering data.  
- Game server: game servers (software) are specialized for online-based multiplayer gaming. They manage data from the online game and enable a synchronized interaction with the virtual world. The hardware for a game server can come from the data center of a specialized provider or locally via the home network.
- Proxy server: a proxy server serves as a communication interface in computer networks. Acting as an intermediary, the proxy server accepts requests from the network and forwards them on via its own IP address. Proxies are used to filter communication, control bandwidths, increase availability by load balancing, or to cache data. A proxy server also offers increased anonymity because the client’s IP address is hidden behind the proxy.
- DNS server: DNS, or name servers, are responsible for name resolution on a network. This is central to the World Wide Web, because a DNS server will translate the human-friendly host name (like www.ionos.com) into the corresponding IP address. For further information on DNS servers and the domain name system.